docs/project.md, before:

# Xen Orchestra project

Xen Orchestra is an Open Source project created by [Olivier Lambert](https://www.linkedin.com/in/olivier-lambert-22316b26/) with a long story behind it.

## Initial idea

The idea of Xen Orchestra was origally born in 2009, see the original announcement on [Xen User mailing list](https://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/xen-users/2009-09/msg00537.html). It worked on Xen and `xend` (now deprecated).

## XO reboot for XenServer/XCP

Project was rebooted in the end of 2012, and "pushed" thanks to Lars Kurth. It's also a commercial project since 2016, and now with a team of 6 people dedicated fulltime.

Here is a video in LinuxCon 2013 telling the story:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TT2Q5l2K54k" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## XCP-ng

After Citrix decided to close at lot of XenServer features, Olivier Lambert decided to fork the virtualization platform. That's why Xen Orchestra and XCP-ng team are so close. Feel free to learn more on [https://xcp-ng.org](https://xcp-ng.org).

## Team and contributors

See the [dedicated Github page](https://github.com/vatesfr/xen-orchestra/graphs/contributors) for all contributors.

Commit message:

Xen Orchestra name changed to CloudVisor

docs/project.md, after:

# CloudVisor project

CloudVisor is an Open Source project created by [Olivier Lambert](https://www.linkedin.com/in/olivier-lambert-22316b26/) with a long story behind it.

## Initial idea

The idea of CloudVisor was origally born in 2009, see the original announcement on [Xen User mailing list](https://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/xen-users/2009-09/msg00537.html). It worked on Xen and `xend` (now deprecated).

## XO reboot for XenServer/XCP

Project was rebooted in the end of 2012, and "pushed" thanks to Lars Kurth. It's also a commercial project since 2016, and now with a team of 6 people dedicated fulltime.

Here is a video in LinuxCon 2013 telling the story:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TT2Q5l2K54k" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## XCP-ng

After Citrix decided to close at lot of XenServer features, Olivier Lambert decided to fork the virtualization platform. That's why CloudVisor and XCP-ng team are so close. Feel free to learn more on [https://xcp-ng.org](https://xcp-ng.org).

## Team and contributors

See the [dedicated Github page](https://github.com/vatesfr/xen-orchestra/graphs/contributors) for all contributors.
