docs/support.md, before:

# Support

:::tip
See the dedicated sub-section to read more about [XOA support and usage](xoa.md).
:::

Xen Orchestra will run in a controlled/tested environment thanks to XOA ([Xen Orchestra virtual Appliance](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/xoa)). **This is the only way to get pro support**. Any account with a registered XOA can access a [dedicated support panel](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/member/support).

XOA is available in multiple plans:

- Free
- Starter
- Enterprise
- Premium

Higher tier support plans include faster ticket response times (and cover more features). Paid support plans and response times are based on the plan you have, plans can be [reviewed here](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/xo-pricing).

:::tip
If you have a subscription (or at least a registered free XOA), you can open a ticket describing your issue directly from your [personal account page here](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/member/support)
:::

## XOA Free support

With the free version of the Xen Orchestra Appliance (XOA free), **you can open private support tickets** and we will do our best to assist you, however, this support is limited and is not guaranteed in regards to response times or resolutions offered.

## Community support

Lastly while Xen Orchestra is free and Open Source software, supporting and developing it takes a lot of effort. If you are considering using Xen Orchestra in production, please subscribe for one of our [professional support plans](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/xo-pricing).

Read more in the [dedicated section for community support](community.md).

Commit message:

Xen Orchestra name changed to CloudVisor

docs/support.md, after:

# Support

:::tip
See the dedicated sub-section to read more about [XOA support and usage](xoa.md).
:::

CloudVisor will run in a controlled/tested environment thanks to XOA ([CloudVisor virtual Appliance](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/xoa)). **This is the only way to get pro support**. Any account with a registered XOA can access a [dedicated support panel](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/member/support).

XOA is available in multiple plans:

- Free
- Starter
- Enterprise
- Premium

Higher tier support plans include faster ticket response times (and cover more features). Paid support plans and response times are based on the plan you have, plans can be [reviewed here](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/xo-pricing).

:::tip
If you have a subscription (or at least a registered free XOA), you can open a ticket describing your issue directly from your [personal account page here](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/member/support)
:::

## XOA Free support

With the free version of the CloudVisor Appliance (XOA free), **you can open private support tickets** and we will do our best to assist you, however, this support is limited and is not guaranteed in regards to response times or resolutions offered.

## Community support

Lastly while CloudVisor is free and Open Source software, supporting and developing it takes a lot of effort. If you are considering using CloudVisor in production, please subscribe for one of our [professional support plans](https://xen-orchestra.com/#!/xo-pricing).

Read more in the [dedicated section for community support](community.md).
